# blog_api

This project was my first time working with protected API paths, json web token for login verification, and building a separate front-end and back-end for a website. Setting up the json web token to allow my admin user access to certain paths was a lot less daunting than I expected, but I did struggle to figure out where would be the best place to store my token. I opted to use local storage for simplicity's sake, but I know it's not the best option. I did attempt to store it in a httponly secure same-site cookie, but I couldn't figure out how to use the cookie properly in order to give me access to the protected routes. While I wasn't able to utilize the best practices when dealing with json web tokens, I definitely do want to learn the proper method for implementing both a refresher token and an access token which seems to be the norm when dealing with jwt.

I feel like completing this project has helped me understand how the security of a webpage can be compromised and the importance of protecting the credentials which give you access to those protected routes. I wanted to challenge myself to use json web token instead of passport with sessions for authentication and I'm glad that I did because I definitely gained insight on the pros and cons of using each method.

Overall, I really enjoyed the experience of working on this project because this is my first application using the MERN stack. MongoDB is where I stored my post and comment data as well as my user login, Express is how I managed the routes for my HTTP methods, React is what I built my front-end website with, and Node is the runtime environment for my server because it executes JavaScript, which is what I am familiar and comfortable with at the moment. Being able to develop my first full-stack project was eye-opening because it showed me how far I've come since I began my self-taught coding journey. Everything that I've learned in the front-end and back-end has come together with this blog site and I can see the result of my efforts.